hi.liza.george@gmail.com

Liza George

www.linkedin.com/in/george-liza
(LinkedIn)
liza-george.chiramattel.com/
(Portfolio)

Summary

Contact

Top Skills
Team Management
University Teaching
Semantic Kernel

Honors-Awards
AdaHacks III - First Place in Social
Justice Division
Flex Factor Finalist

UIUC BS+MCS in CS '25 | Microsoft SWE Intern
Urbana, Illinois, United States

I'm a graduate student pursuing a BS+MCS joint degree in Computer
Science in the University of Illinois Urbana Champaign. Through
university courses and projects, I have worked with Python, C, C
++, Java, and Rust, and studied the fundamentals of CS through
fourth-year level courses. I have also gained leadership roles in the
Society of Women Engineers and the Outdoor Adventure Club, and
contributed to volunteer software services through Hack4Impact.
These past two summers, I was a software engineering intern at
Microsoft, where I worked on the Advanced Autonomy and Applied
Robotics team to build a robot teleoperation application on the
Microsoft Teams platform. While on the job I learned C#/.NET, how
to use WebRTC and Azure Communication Services, and ROS2.
Specifically this past summer, I added LLM-based AI agents to
autonomously control robots based on human readable commands.
Two summers ago, I was a full-stack software engineering intern
at Uber, where I was worked on the Uber For Business product.
During this internship, I learned much about industry-scale software
development, as well as how to work with Go, Bazel, and Cadence.
I hope to deepen my computer science knowledge from experienced
mentors, passionate teammates, and valuable work experiences
over the next few years.

Experience
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
3 years 1 month

Teaching Assistant

August 2024 - Present (6 months)
Urbana-Champaign Area

Page 1 of 6

As a TA for CS222 (Software Development Fundamentals), I help plan and
administer the course, provide technical support, and present lectures. I also
aid in managing the CA team, which includes facilitating all-staff meetings and
making hiring decisions. I gather feedback regularly from students and other
course staff to improve the course every semester.

Research Intern

January 2023 - Present (2 years 1 month)
I am a part of the lab of Professor Kaiyu Guan, who is the Director of the
Agroecosystem Sustainability Center and is affiliated with the National Center
for Supercomputing Applications. In our research, we utilize satellite data,
computational models, and machine learning techniques to develop more
productive and sustainable crop practices.
Last spring, I developed an online portal for local farmers, enabling them to
access their own crop data and analyze soil moisture data over time. To create
this portal, I used Next.JS, Google APIs for integrated maps and plots, and
hosted the data on MongoDB.
This semester, I am collaborating with Assistant Professor Bin Peng, two
Colombian social scientists, and the NASA LCLUC project to map rural
croplands in Colombia.”

Course Assistant

January 2022 - May 2024 (2 years 5 months)
Urbana-Champaign Area
As a lead course assistant, I help plan and administer the course, provide
technical support, present lectures, and teach during office hours. I also lead
the rest of the CA team, which includes facilitating all-staff meetings and
making hiring decisions.
Spring ‘23, Fall '23 - CS222 (Software Development Fundamentals) Head CA;
I help plan lectures and improve the resources available to students. I am
also responsible for coordinating meetings with and aid in hiring the rest of the
course staff. I also gather feedback regularly from students and other course
staff to improve the course structure.
Fall ‘22 - CS222 (Software Development Fundamentals) Project Mentor;
managed two student teams as they work on semester-long projects. My
responsibilities included teaching them project planning, best practices in
software development, and helping them through technical challenges.
Spring ‘22 semester- CS128H (Introduction to Computer Science II Honors)
CA; used the Angular framework to maintain and add features to the course
Page 2 of 6

website. Additionally, mentored two student teams working on their final
projects in Rust.

Microsoft
Software Engineer Intern

May 2024 - August 2024 (4 months)
Redmond, Washington, United States
I returned to working with the Advanced Autonomy and Applied Robotics team,
part of the Strategic Missions and Technology (SMT) OCTO group, which
focuses on human-machine-AI teaming.
During my internship, I developed Agents4Robots, a framework to build
AI agents that control specific robot’s movements using advanced LLMs
and developer-provided tools. I implemented the framework for the Boston
Dynamics SPOT and turtlesim. Finally, I integrated it into SMT OCTO’s
Mission Robotics Platform, allowing users to issue high-level, natural language
commands to robot agents via a chatbot interface. Commands are transmitted
over the Azure Communication Services network.
This experience expanded my software development skills significantly. I was
given autonomy to independently plan, design, and execute the project to
achieve an exploratory goal. When integrating with MRP, I collaborated with a
larger software development team, learning about the architecture and design
necessary to turn proof of concepts into scalable products.
Key Technologies & Tools:
- AI Framework: Semantic Kernel
- Languages: Python (99% test coverage), JS
- Robot Control: ROS2 (through Python and Node.js libraries)
- Networking: Azure Communication Services SDK
I continuously sought feedback on my code quality and worked with software
development best practices. During my final presentation, I received
recognition for the flexibility and future potential of Agents4Robots

Microsoft
Software Engineer Intern

May 2023 - August 2023 (4 months)
Redmond, Washington, United States
Page 3 of 6

I worked with the Advanced Autonomy and Applied Robotics team in the
Strategic Missions and Technology division. The team focused on exploring
robotics applications and creating proof-of-concept projects for Microsoft’s
government mission users.
I developed an application on the Microsoft Teams Plugin platform, enabling
users to remotely operate robots. Teleoperation commands were conveyed
via WebRTC, while robot video streams utilized the Azure Communication
Services Call SDK. I designed and built a user interface that allowed multiple
users to collaboratively control several robots simultaneously.
I collaborated on this project with another intern, working closely and learning
together. The team had previously built a POC of this idea, so the intern
project was built from the ground up - with guidance from our manager, we
made design decisions, started the repository, and progressed with a great
degree of independence. We presented the final product at a team all-hands,
and I received praise on my presentation skills, the application performance,
and planning process.
Throughout my internship, I acquired essential networking concepts to work
with WebRTC and ACS, learned to use ROS2 for robot communication, and
honed my skills in C#/.NET to build upon previous versions of the application.
I also refined my group brainstorming and project planning skills. I consistently
received positive feedback on my code quality and thoroughness as an
engineer, holding myself and the project to a high standard.

Hack4Impact
Software Developer

September 2022 - August 2023 (1 year)
Hack4Impact is a student club that develops free websites and apps for nonprofit organizations.
Recently, my team and I collaborated with the Students for Environmental
Concerns organization on campus to build a website outlining their argument
for fossil fuel divestment. The website was built using the T3 stack, and
included a database interface where users can explore the university’s
investment portfolio and carbon impact of each of its investments. I also
developed an additional page featuring SEC's open letter and a petition form
for students to sign, requesting university divestment.

Page 4 of 6

During the Fall ‘22 semester, my team worked with KadaKareer, a Filipino
organization that aids underserved students in exploring career options,
gaining work experience and finding mentors. We developed a web-based
platform using React and Nest.js hosting their apprenticeship program. I was
responsible for implementing our platform dashboard designs and creating
a reusable form component. Additionally, I established connections to our
Firebase database through Nest.js endpoints.

Uber
SWE Intern

May 2022 - August 2022 (4 months)
Interned with Uber’s Enterprise Billing team, which helps manage B2B
transactions with Uber’s partners (Walmart, Apple, Drizly, etc.). My project was
a series of API endpoints serialized into the Google Protobuf format to query
and sort through all billing invoices. Collaborated with another intern to connect
these endpoints to a real-time analytics database. Also built matching UI that
consumes this API using React and GraphQL.
Additionally, I experienced agile development in a team, helped with our
support channel, and added to the product documentation. Under the guidance
of my mentor, I learned how software development works on a large scale,
how to create secure and reliable products, and how to work in a professional
team.

Project Code Future Inc.
Frontend Web Developer

July 2021 - January 2022 (7 months)
Urbana-Champaign Area
Project Code Future organizes coding lessons for younger students in our
area. I am a part of the team building the website where students can find and
sign up for nearby classes, and tutors can start new branches.
I learned how to use the Vue frontend framework on the job to create the
website for the nonprofit organization. I built the website's first page, and also
used Vuelidate to add form validation to the whole site. Additionally, I had the
chance to collaborate with a development team and learn how to work in the
software development cycle using Git Issues.

Google
Google Computer Science Summer Institute Scholar
Page 5 of 6

July 2021 - August 2021 (2 months)
Remote
A full explanation of my time in CSSI and my capstone project can be viewed
here - https://bit.ly/my-time-in-google-cssi
Google's Computer Science Summer Institute (CSSI) Program is a selective
4-week bootcamp for rising college freshman interested in computer science.
During the program, I learned from Google's volunteer instructors and
engineers, and used the p5.js library to build my knowledge of Javascript.
I also attended the program's workshops to learn more about Google's
engineering programs and how to be a successful teammate and engineer.
The program ended with a capstone project that I built and presented with my
partner, where I used the p5.js library to replicate the arcade game Centipede.

STEM Enrichment Youth
Coding, Set Theory, and Physics Instructor
June 2020 - July 2021 (1 year 2 months)

As a volunteer instructor at STEMEY, I taught several middle- and highschool age students different topics in Competitive Programming, Physics,
Introduction to Coding, Set Theory, and Introduction to Web Design. I taught
larger classes with fellow volunteers, co-lead smaller asynchronous classes,
and provided one-on-one tutoring. Teaching all of these subjects was a
wonderful opportunity for me to gain a better understanding of each of them,
and to introduce others to these fields that interest me so much.

Education
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Master's degree, Computer Science · (August 2024 - May 2025)

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Bachelor's degree, Computer Science · (2021 - May 2024)

Leigh High School
High School, High School ·  (2017 - 2021)

Stanford Summer Session
High School Summer College , Computer Science · (June 2020 - August 2020)

Page 6 of 6